[docs] dg docs for env var related commands (#29891)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/docs/guides/labs/components/using-environment-variables-in-components.md

---
title: 'Using environment variables with components'
sidebar_position: 100
---

> import Preview from '@site/docs/partials/\_Preview.md';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import DgComponentsPreview from '@site/docs/partials/\_DgComponentsPreview.md';
```

> <Preview />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<DgComponentsPreview />
```

> It's common to want to configure components depending on the environment in which they are run. `dg` and components make it easy to configure this behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `dg` and components, you can easily configure components depending on the environment in which they are run. 
```

Reviewer: I would give a brief description of the example here: "To demonstrate, we'll walk through setting up an example ELT pipeline with a Sling component that reads Snowflake credentials from environment variables"

> ## Setting up a components project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Create a new Dagster components project
```

> To demonstrate how to configure components for different environments, we'll set up a basic ELT pipeline using Sling in an empty Dagster components project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we'll set up a basic ELT pipeline using Sling in an empty Dagster components project:
```

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/1-dg-init.txt" />

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/2-activate-venv.txt" />

We'll install `dagster-sling` and scaffold an empty Sling connection component:

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/3-uv-add-sling.txt" />

> <CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/4-dg-list-component-types.txt" />

Reviewer 2: not sure if this is blocking or not but this table looks kind of weirdly cut off on my macbook 

![image.png](https://graphite-user-uploaded-assets-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/KkgkhQiz3H2YHdisAdzD/13bc439d-a927-4b33-b3fe-a555efc5b6ef.png)

> <CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/5-dg-scaffold-sling.txt" />

Reviewer 2: ![image.png](https://graphite-user-uploaded-assets-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/KkgkhQiz3H2YHdisAdzD/4a7aad31-f736-4cbc-8bb6-5383ba91ef09.png)

looks a little weird to just show the warning

> ## Utilizing environment variables in a component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Use environment variables in a component
```

> Next, we will configure a Sling connection which will sync a local CSV file to a Snowflake database, whose credentials will be provided via environment variables.

Reviewer 2: maybe 'with credentials provided via environment variables'?

> Next, we will configure a Sling connection which will sync a local CSV file to a Snowflake database, whose credentials will be provided via environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will configure a Sling connection that will sync a local CSV file to a Snowflake database, with credentials provided via environment variables:
```

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/6-curl.txt" />

<CodeExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/7-replication.yaml" language="yaml" title="src/ingestion/defs/ingest_files/replication.yaml" />

We will use the `env` function to template credentials into Sling configuration in our `component.yaml` file. Running `dg check yaml` will highlight that we
need to explicitly encode these environment dependencies at the bottom of the file:

> <CodeExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/8-component.yaml" language="yaml" title="src/ingestion/defs/ingest_files/component.yaml" />

Reviewer 2: tabs are a little funky here

After adding the environment dependencies, running `dg check yaml` again will confirm that the file is valid:
<CodeExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/10-component-with-env-deps.yaml" language="yaml" title="src/ingestion/defs/ingest_files/component.yaml" />

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/11-dg-component-check-fixed.txt" />

Next, you can invoke `dg list env`, which shows all environment variables configured or used by components in the project. Here we can see all of the Snowflake credentials we must configure in our shell or `.env` file in order to run our project:

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/12-dg-list-env.txt" />

You can edit the `.env` file in your project root to specify environment variables for Dagster to use when running the project locally. You can run `dg list env` again to see that they are now set:

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/13-inject-env.txt" />

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/14-dg-list-env.txt" />

> ## Configuring environment variables for components in Dagster Plus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## [Optional] 3. Configure environment variables for components in Dagster+
```

> If you are using Dagster Plus, you can also use the `dg` CLI to push environment variables to your deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using Dagster+,  you can also use the `dg` CLI to push environment variables to your deployment.
```

Reviewer: I would add a line about why this is helpful here -- I assume so you can have different creds for production vs local environments.

> First, you will need to authenticate with Dagster Plus:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you will need to authenticate with Dagster+:
```

<CliInvocationExample contents="dg plus login" />

The `dg list env` command will now automatically show what scopes environment variables are configured for, in your configured deployment:

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/15-dg-env-list.txt" />

From here, you can use the `dg plus create env` command to push environment variables to your deployment. The `--from-local-env` flag will read the environment variables from your local shell or `.env` file.

> To make it so that the rest of your team can run your project locally, you can run the following command to push each Snowflake credential to the `local` scope:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Configure local environment variables

To enable the rest of your team to run your project locally, you can run the following command to push each Snowflake credential to the `local` scope:
```

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/16-dg-plus-env-add.txt" />

Running `dg list env` again will confirm that the environment variables have been pushed to your deployment:

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/17-dg-env-list.txt" />

Now that `local` scope environment variables have been pushed to your deployment, your teammates can pull them into a `.env` file for local use:

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_snippets/docs_snippets/guides/dg/using-env/18-dg-env-pull.txt" />

> Finally, you can configure a different set of production environment variables for your Dagster Plus deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Configure production environment variables

Finally, you can configure a different set of production environment variables for your Dagster+ deployment:
```
